[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in today's episode we were joined by
Patrick young the head of goto Market at
Galaxy a platform for web3 Community
growth and
engagement in this conversation we
discussed Patrick's entry into the
industry and how he helped develop a
blockchain curriculum at Miami
University how Galaxy builds
relationships with blockchain projects
building sticky and resilient web 3
communities various Galaxy products and
tools identity Solutions in web 3 the
forthcoming gravity blockchain layer 1
and so much more just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens and that the
guest or host might hold tokens
discussed in any given episode you can
check out a disclaimer at
www.newsday.com also if you enjoyed this
episode please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
share it with your friends and family
every rating review like and comment
really helps us reach more people and
bring you more of your favorite guests
with all that said I really enjoyed this
conversation with Patrick and I hope you
enjoy it too hey everyone welcome to the
smart economy podcast today we're joined
by Patrick young the head of goto Market
at Galaxy a platform for web3 Community
growth and engagement I think before we
even start off the conversation uh I
just want to thank you Patrick you're
recovering from the flu and we were
talking before we hit record about my
experiences having covid and how long it
took to cover so to be able to hop on
the mic uh kudos to you uh within a few
days of getting sick so we can preface
the conversation with that and I
appreciate your time how you doing today
of course I appreciate it yeah feeling
much better and appreciate your
flexibility making this happen yeah so
uh maybe we can just kind of like ease
in to the conversation I generally like
to ask many of all of the guests who
come on here what's your what's your
background in in blockchain and crypto
for for me personally I first heard
about Bitcoin when I was a grad student
in
2013 and I saw that it had crashed to
like $300 and I thought oh that that's
pretty cool and then I didn't come back
around to it until 2017 so if you're
like me and many others who've been on
the show you kind of had like an
introduction and then an ala moment
later so what's kind of like your crash
course into to bitcoin and crypto when
did you first learn about it and then
what was your aha moment yeah I mean I
think I first learned about Bitcoin like
many others probably closer to to 2014
2015 and honestly just in passing and
and didn't think too much of it in the
moment it was really only until long
story short my family had moved out to
Switzerland and being so close to uh zoo
and the crypto Valley out there that I
had some opportunities to go out and
visit see the space see what was being
developed just in passing and that was
around closer to 2016 2017 and really
the a moment for me was actually seeing
the work that was being done in Zoo for
identity management on the blockchain in
particular canson of zud was working on
a few pilot privates or private Pilots
that were working towards voting and
handling digital identity for the
citizens of zud on the on chain and
really for me that's when that was my
aha moment started to go down the rabbit
hole absorb as much information as I
could as relates to the space and that
really kicked off this journey that
coincided with my attendance at miam
University of Ohio and ever since have
spent every waking moment involved in
the space yeah when I first kind gotten
to the space like zoo was the Silicon
Valley of of Europe and it was kind of
the like the The Beacon of Hope for for
real teams kind of locating there and
building in this space I mean if you've
even read uh Laura Shin's book on the
beginnings of of ethereum there's a lot
of kind of location in in Switzerland so
what was the the the general vibe there
like at that time were were you kind of
just like oh I'm I'm lucky to be in this
place and and here's this blockchain uh
thing going on and like oh cool Identity
or was there really kind of a push in
Switzerland like we're trying to to be
the home base for these future
blockchain enabled
networks yeah it's interesting I think
once I had come across that and started
to familiarize myself with the
technology every you know the dots
started to connect in terms of you know
recognizing things every day as you walk
down the street located very closely to
trust square that had a lot of those
early stage teams that were developing
out of Switzerland uh co-working spaces
that were focused on the tech and you
know really a very welcoming EOS system
at that I mean it always has been and
always you know has has continued to be
even through today but at the time it
was very welcoming in the sense of
getting people involved people wanted to
become familiar with technology a lot of
opportunities certainly a lot of growth
in this space in the market so really
it's it's that very Community Centric
Focus that I think was easy to bring
people in including myself and and get
us up the speed on what's happening in
the industry would you say that your
experiences in the local community kind
of inspired you to go into studying
blockchain at
University absolutely so what the track
really looked like for me it was worldly
unique in the sense that had an
opportunity to get familiar with the
technology spend my own time researching
about the technology getting as deep as
possible then connecting that more with
the community side speaking with experts
experts in the space people were the
building Hands-On developers in in the
ecosystem and then took a lot of that
information compartmentalized it and uh
really formatted it in a way to deliver
it to the university that didn't have a
focus on blockchain education at the
time and that led it to us starting my
University's blockchain organization
back in 2017 which quickly developed
pained a lot of attention and actually
ended up with us developing the course
curriculum or co-developing the course
curriculum for the University itself
that was later rolled out at the under
graduate level and I think it was number
eight or n in the United States that had
a formal curriculum that I had the
benefit of of taking the course that I'd
helped uh create certainly with
University that's awesome when um before
I was in the the blockchain and crypto
space I was an urban and Regional
planner and in undergraduate um I
basically pieced together my Urban and
Regional planning studies in uh
interdisciplinary social sciences so I
very much uh relate to the path that
that you took where you basically
created the course that you studied um
in October
2022 I had the opportunity to travel
with the the Neo blockchain Community to
a wide variety of different universities
across the US and I got to meet
blockchain clubs at MIT at University of
Michigan all up and down the coast of
California throughout Illinois and it
was very obvious back in 2022 during
kind of like a bare market time
that there were just a ton of Builders
and a ton of people who were really
interested in the blockchain space and I
was actually going to be shocked if half
the students I met actually graduated
because you know they kind of had these
Steve Jobs opportunities where they
might be able to build a product and and
build a team out of their garage and and
really start to to to build uh the
entrepreneurial spirit and engage um in
an entrepreneurial Endeavor without
necessarily having to have a piece of
paper to verify you know that they could
do that so um did you kind of see that
at the MU blockchain Club was that kind
of um entrepreneurial Spirit alive back
then because this was what 201 17ish
2016 is that this was happening so what
was like the the Genesis of the club
like now and do you still have your
finger on the pulse today yeah
absolutely I mean the club continues to
work on a variety of interesting things
from development now on you know
investing hosting regular conference
circuits so on and so forth but
absolutely to your point that was
something that we saw both in the moment
and is actually part of that Genesis
story of how the organization started
itself and and alsoo has continued today
to see all of those different
connections come out of the organization
come out of the university and pursue
careers in the space which is great to
see as well uh one of them being you
know my co-founder at the time actually
of the Miami University blockchain Club
was Spencer applebomb who is one of the
investors over at multi-coin Capital so
he's kind of that example that you
raised where I had an opportunity with
multicoin in the midst of working
through the organization before
graduation uh took on that opportunity
and has absolutely crushed it ever since
and then we've also seen that with a lot
of the a leadership team that came out
of that first cycle as well as you
subsequent years thereafter that you
know many people I meet in a day-to-day
basis working with different teams are
actually members of that organization or
had been members of that organization
and taken that as an opportunity to
really dive deep and mold their
professional career around it have you
hired anybody that has graduated out of
uh University of Miami not within Galaxy
not yet uh have been some in a past life
with some previous organizations and the
talent has been absolutely phenomenal
but uh not not in Galaxy not yet cool so
after um your kind of initial
experiences pre Collegiate um in zoo and
then your experiences building a club
and and a curricul
at Miami University in Ohio you kind of
also have a rich background in in the
the crypto space dating back to 2017 so
can you just walk us through your path
of what it was like uh or or what your
career path has been um starting with
block key capital and then going to
fintank and Le dramatic and maybe just
walk us through the path of of your
experience in the crypto industry um and
how it led you to chain leag glabs and
and now Galaxy yeah absolutely so the
way that I started to kind of view this
this space and my professional
development as it relates to the space
was in you what are the pillars of the
industry that I could be or would want
to be involved in um not as much on the
coding side of things so that wasn't
necessarily as as Central to discussion
but education was one part that was
accomplished you mentioned blocky
Capital that was the investment firm
that we started uh me with a handful of
the the other students that were part of
that blockchain organization itself uh
outside of Campus during our Junior and
Senior year so we ran out for about two
years that was more on the investing
arms so again establishing another
pillar from there it was a pretty
National progression into what is the
other areas that we want to focused in
one being asset management and custody
so worked with a handful of folks that
came from IBM blockchain a handful of
other uh high security environments and
and Technology industry uh players and
started Le dramatic which is digital
asset custody and uh treasury Management
Solutions that is since rolled in to H
which is now a sable coin issuer out of
the UK doing some very interesting
things over there and then from there it
was an opportunity to join uh join Chain
Lake Labs as one of their initial
members of the go to market team so that
opportunity Rose join them when around
60 UH 60 or 65 folks on that team the
team today is around 700 so spent about
four years with with the Chain Lake Labs
team building some very interesting
things originally joining as um focused
on the the data Oracle side but we
certainly seen that that Focus expand
for the chain link team into a broad web
pre- services platform for critical
infrastructure and my tenure concluded
there as running the web 3 services or
web 3 Commercial Services business uh so
everything focused on blockchain public
blockchain networks all the works we do
with defi different applications of that
nature and then yeah certainly there was
this opportunity to look and evaluate
what is another critical piece of the
building stack if you will and that for
me was Galaxy and the work that was
being done and continues to be done by
the team Focus on community building
engagement as well as other areas of the
business focused on identity management
artificial intelligence and critical
infrastructure and until right with uh
gravity which is the new L1 that we're
coming out with uh very very soon yeah I
can't wait to to delve into the the
suite of products that galaxy has which
is actually pretty incredible because um
my uh initial interactions with Galaxy
were through Quest and I thought that
this was just um a large scale entity
that builds communities and connects
like onchain users social media users
with various different blockchain
networks but in delving into to the
suite of products there's just so much
more that Galaxy offers um so before we
kind of like delve into Galaxy um I just
want to maybe pick your brain a little
bit about how the differences in
marketing and community building and
user traction differs in web 3 versus
those with potentially the traditional
institutions you're communicating with I
think for a lot of our listeners who are
crypto natives we're deep into crypto
Twitter and that's a very different
language that's a very different
communication style there's a lot of
anons a lot of people are free to say
their mind how they want and if you're
from the outside looking in this might
look like a circus to you if you're like
a large scale financial institution or a
financial entity so maybe you could just
kind of highlight some of the
experiences that you've had with maybe
more traditional Partners who have
explored Galaxy for dipping their toes
into the the blockchain in web 3 uh
space marketing space Community Building
space and maybe you can just kind of
highlight some of the opportunities and
the constraints that we as an industry
have when it comes to to building
communities and to doing marketing
initiatives yeah I mean it's a very
interesting question I think that
there's a different tone of voice that's
taken by both ends of that spectr so as
you called out when it comes to the work
that's done in web 3 and the communities
that exist in web 3 you do get a lot
more of the D gen Behavior a lot more of
the Twitter uh interactions are heavily
Twitter dominated uh social Community
develop uh development you see a lot
more of that dgen behavior where in
comparison within the traditional uh
Market you see things that are much more
based on professionalism you know making
sure things are you know as as tightly
organized as well executed as
articulated as possible from a marketing
perspective to really deliver their
their message but the underlying message
is is really the same for both and I
think that is you know you need to
communicate the value to to the people
that you're looking to attract to your
platforms you need to communicate uh
that you're going to be you know making
a material impact on either their
business or their individual lives so on
and so forth I think there are
significant advantages though however to
what we see in the world of web free in
comparison to you know web 2 in the
traditional markets primarily on the
basis of things like for example within
that dgen web 3 culture you get very
sticky communities that's not something
that you necessarily see within like
traditional uh web two players that you
don't have these dieh hard fans and uh
people that want to be involved and feel
like they're active participants in the
development of the services they use as
opposed to being strictly consumer side
of the the equation so I think brands
that come in you know need to not only
try to speak that language a little bit
more and certainly web3 in some aspects
has tried to you know extend the olive
branch and speak a little bit more of
the language of the traditional Market
but at the end of the day it's it's that
convergence that is going to open up a
significant amount of opportunity for
both sides of that spectrum and we do
see Brands embracing that type of
language that type of approach even
outside the confines of web 3 for that
matter in a sense of how they interact
on socials their more degenerate kind of
behavior and brand positioning that they
take ways that they're connecting with
the end user in a much more you know
intentional and humanistic way than you
would ever see in a traditional web 2
environment so again I do there's
significant opportunities there I think
you know both sides are going to benefit
from this convergence it's going to be a
blend of not only web 3 you know
extending itself and trying to to appeal
to those audiences a little bit more
especially as traditional Finance comes
involved uh but also you know the the
web two aren you know really trying to
speak that language and and take
advantage of those uh those Community
efforts that OBC be so successful we 3
yeah I think the the examples that just
kind of come to the top of mind is is
like vanac uh they have an intern now
that is very kind of like crypto jargon
web 3 um even McDonald's at a certain
every now and then particularly when
markets are down they they'll make a
joke about how Crypt Bros can apply uh
to work at McDonald's and they're kind
of really making that shift into
grasping the the degenerate behavior
that that CT loves to to embrace and and
to exhibit um and that's also a
phenomenal point that you bring up
there's not a lot of community building
in web 2 entities the I can think of
maybe like Nvidia because right now it's
it's a super hot topic for AI or maybe
even Tesla because stockholders really
love to kind of speculate on the future
of humanity and they're using Tesla to
do so or even like the Apple stock but
that's because people are in love with
their MacBooks or they're in love with
their iPhones and they really have an
emotional connection to the products
that are being built by those entities
but yeah this is like few and far
between and there's much more kind of of
an emotional relationship to crypto
tokens crypto projects because we are
kind of like a Grassroots from the
groundup um entity and community and and
we do get to become community holders so
I think kind of like taking all that in
uh when when you're out there and you're
giving your elevator pitch to to folks
on what galaxy is what's what's like
your Eli 5 how do you pitch Galaxy in in
like 30 seconds or less yeah absolutely
so I think you know Galaxy is is a web 3
centralized super app for Community
Building uh and engagement developing
the ecosystems that are going to power
your applications that are going to
ensure that you're building the best
product so on and so forth I think
people are probably most wellknown or we
are most wellknown I should say for
Quest as a service being that out of the
box no code solution for teams to
incentivize and gamify experiences
within their Community or on their
application itself so using that as a
tool to generate um and track the
actions that are helping to establish
your social Community your Discord
Twitter you know Twitter x uh other
communities telegram so on and so forth
but also the onchain activity you're
looking to drive as well so making sure
people are getting in testing out your
applications and really helping to
develop the the uh you know the testing
uh aspect of what comes into powerful
applications going forward I think
that's just a tip of the iceberg though
we do a plethora of things that are
focused on real really providing a
comprehensive suweet of products and
services that Empower protocols and
consumers today and those again extend
across areas like identity management
asset distribution AI uh with things
like passport burnd drop and Elva but
I'm sure we can touch on that more in
the in the discussion too yeah and I
also just want to give a a shout out to
to Quest um I I probably have mentioned
in the recording and and I definitely
mentioned before we hit record I spent I
also spend a lot of my time in the Neo
ecosystem and when Neo migrated from its
Legacy chain to the new N3 chain that
required users to move tokens from one
network to the next which can be a
friction event for using or for engaging
your previous token holders and
community members and asking them to
migrate to a new network and uh Galaxy's
Quest was one of the tools that was used
to re-engage Old token holders and new
token holders into um paying attention
to the socials into onboarding into the
new chain so it was really cool from a
firsthand experience to kind of watch
how this played out for one particular
ecosystem so before we kind of like
delve further into Quest and into the
plethora of other products that you guys
are working on um how do you guys go
about establishing relationships with
web 3 Partners do blockchain networks
come to you do you have an arm that goes
out to them are you guys playing with
these networks before you integrate them
into Quest what's just kind of like the
general flow for for how a new
blockchain team or a new blockchain
ecosystem can can begin the conversation
with Galaxy yeah absolutely so we worked
directly with end applications that are
looking to build and lever these
different services to fuel their
ecosystem growth independently uh we
also work in partnership with the
blockchains themselves directly so uh
one thing that that Galaxy provides is
you know the opportunity to natively
integrate within blockchain ecosystems
so we're a Services layer that gets
deployed onto given chains that know
both the blockchain themselves can
leverage to uh you know build their
ecosystem build their following help
build their community at the end of the
day but also to help them by extension
to deploy those services and fuel growth
within the ecosystem itself so we see
this with the 70 plus teams or 70 plus
chains and foundations that we work with
today where we are a critical layer in
that service in stack for anyone that's
looking to come and deploy and attract
you know uh developers into their
ecosystem it's that set of tooling that
they provide that says hey in addition
to other critical uh services that you
might require as a developer or as a
team you also have access to Galaxy and
the suit of services that they provide
so that's a very intentional effort that
we work with directly with those teams
uh in terms of once those services are
deployed on a given chain or in a given
environment uh it is you know uh two two
two directions I guess you could say one
is we work directly with teams uh again
in a very intentional format we reach
out we work with them uh directly to
help structure quests help uh give them
our insight and we worked with 6,500
projects today we launched um you know
thousands upon thousands of quests we've
actually had quests completed over 1.1
billion times with you know 31 million
acted users uh we have a you know
plethora of experience when it comes to
what it takes to properly Leverage The
the services in the most uh high output
most performant fashion that's going to
build the strongest stickiest
communities that are going to stay there
for the long term uh so we look to
extend that to teams as actively as
possible we also have the ability for
anybody that's listening that's looking
to leverage these these offerings to go
in directly within the Galaxy app go
directly with the Galaxy interface and
have a completely self-service
experience uh where they can go create
their own space launch their own Quest
and start to get you know that Community
Building underway as well that's yeah I
mean that those are 6,500 projects 31
million active users 1.1 billion
transactions those are phenomenal
numbers from your from like an internal
team
perspective uh how robust are your
developers because sure it's maybe one
thing to Launch launch a new quest with
an L2 that's evm based but then there's
also salon ofm and now there's move VMS
and there's also alternative L1 networks
that don't use evm architecture so how
does uh what's like your kind of
internal Dev team look like and how do
they keep on on the ball for emerging
new networks and integrating support for
them so that projects on those networks
can do a quest or integrate some other
sort of product from the suite that
Galaxy offers yeah absolutely I think
like any other organization it's it's
certainly a partnership between what we
do from the go to market perspective and
what's being done from the product and
the technical side as well so sharing
those insights from the field what is
the market demanding how is the market
moving what are the insights of can
capture around more novel uh technology
developments that are happening in the
ecosystem and making sure that we're
Translating that over to the product
into to the technical teams that they
can look to incorporate uh those type of
advancements into their approach moving
forward so certainly a very uh you know
locked at the head partnership effort
that being both sides of that uh both
sides of the house if you will uh that
being said I mean I I can't say enough
positive things about the development
team at Galaxy certainly given the
amount of offerings that we support
we're alsoa blockchain agnostics so we
do support area ecosystems like salana
for example likeu and others that have
taken a more novel approach as opposed
to the traditional evm uh ecosystem to
developing their approach from a from a
technical standpoint point and have had
phenomenal success in supporting those
ecosystems as a result and we've also
contined to deploy you know new products
that are geared towards this notion of
onboarding next billion users into the
ecosystem on a very consistent basis and
have no intention of stopping any time
soon so can't say any can't say enough
positive things about the team and the
work that they do so you you mentioned
onboarding the first billion users into
an ecosystem and I've kind of been going
through this evolution of my Outlook on
on what that means for for people like
you and me who are building and working
in this space and what that means in
general uh last summer at consensus I I
went to a variety of AI agent talks and
um one of the folks who's working on an
AI agent platform kind of blew my mind
and shifted the way that I look on
onchain users and he basically said in
in a single sentence that blew my mind
we used to think that the first 1
billion users we're going to be humans
and now we're starting to wonder if the
first 1 billion users are actually going
to be agents so is that is is the the
the coming wave of AI agents and just AI
enabled crypto wallets has that kind of
shaken you guys yet has that integrated
has that thought process kind of become
a part of how you look on this industry
um are you still just kind of like we
we'll wait and see and in the meantime
we're going to build communities with
with humans how is this kind of um
changing your outlook and and and maybe
are you guys even preparing for this
oncoming wave of AI agents absolutely so
we have our own products that are geared
towards that space in particular things
like Alba that uh is an AI co-pilot that
we can certainly talk about that's
geared more towards this environment in
particular SO trading web 3 uh Market
developments developments from a
technical standpoint so on and so forth
uh that being said when it comes to the
work that's being done within Ai and
blockchain I think that in end of itself
is where a lot of the very cool and
we're certainly seeing this in the
market today and where a lot of the
attention is being focused but where a
lot of the value can be added to the
work that's being done in the AI space
generally speaking is by leveraging
blockchain technologies that can be
things for uring proper security making
sure there is censorship resistance
making sure that uh some of these
systems that today might operate as a
blackbox don't have that ability where
they're operating it's completely
trusted environment and we're certainly
you know very eager to work with the
teams that are capitalizing on uh that
opportunity in the market and they're
making those advancements you we work
very closely with teams like zero
gravity so another gravity team but zero
g and that is uh the team that has just
had a very successful raise coming to
main that production very soon here uh
with their AI serving framework uh other
teams like allora have been doing some
fantastic work and providing AI
inference tools and even in the those
instances you know we're working with
them not only to uh you know provide the
typical questing experience for example
but we're also looking to work with them
as they extend those type of offerings
to their ecosystem they want to grow the
notoriety make sure that they're
building in they bringing in the best
developers possible they trying to
attract the communities so people that
will use these or interact with these AI
agents and we're continuing to play a
role there and so really for us it's
less of you know who is the the end
Target user as much as you know we're
continuing to adapt and continue to
support whatever growth efforts are
demanded by the industry at a given
point in time and right now that's
certainly AI yeah um something that I
also uh see as as as a great value that
Galaxy offers in in connecting human
users with the blockchain platforms and
networks and teams that you collaborate
with um is earn drop um I'd like to to
just hear a little bit more more about
the earn Job Program and the value prop
and maybe without uh putting words in
your mouth or or maybe saying things
that you don't necessarily want to say
out loud um I want to preface uh the
value that earn drop offers with the
kind of um lack of community building
that airdrops have been able to Garner
in the past I mean if you look at like
the ZK sync airdrop last year 50% of all
the tokens were sold immediately um
barah chain just launched this week and
that ecosystem is having a really hard
time retaining value in the airdrop of
that token so we've seen historically
that the airdrop model has flaws even
though it does put tokens into the hands
of the users of these networks so maybe
with that context um and calling out
names that Galaxy might not want to call
out uh what is what is earndrop and what
is kind of the value prop that that you
and your team are really viewing
earndrop as um maybe as like a a Next
Step that can make aird drops great
again so I think for us and to set the
stage earn drop is really the
continuation or if not the conclusion of
this endtoend life cycle management for
uh the way that Galaxy can underpin
incentivization ecosystem development uh
and then through to you know War
distribution so it's really an endend
life cycle where we can work with the
team today in you know starting them
getting them out of stealth as they go
through their growth phase getting them
through test net onchain incentivization
onchain activation going through main
net production and then going through
tge and airdrop distribution so really
what we're creating on our end is this
endtoend user Journey where they're not
having to work with you know one two
three four five different providers
outside of you know Galaxy they can come
and work with us through that entire
cycle uh to ensure that they're not
taking any or opening up any additional
you know risk factors um you know
incurring costs that are necessary
things of that nature and still
leveraging the largest distribution
Network that does exist in the space and
that is Galaxy's ecosystem and and uh
Alx Galaxy's distribution Network now in
terms of you know the the strategy
behind what air drops entail uh earn
drop itself and I'll clarify this earn
drop itself is an aird drop distribution
tool that leverages the existing
infrastructure uh at a you know
adaptation of the existing
infrastructure that galaxy has provided
for those 1.1 billion quests that have
been completing for those 31 million
users for those 6,500 partners and
effectively gearing that more towards
open-ended aird draft distribution so
projects can come in they can work with
us they can work with the products and
very seamlessly handle airdrop
distribution in a highly scalable secure
format that you really don't see in the
market today I think in some of the
examples that you mentioned those are
more of the Strategic decision making
around uh how teams have approached
certain allocations unlock periods uh so
on and so forth that have you know
resulted in in some of the frustration
from the community uh some you know
certainly Market pressure on sell
pressure that is existed because of the
influx of token Supply into the market
without really a tie to the project or a
tie to the application that is
Distributing those tokens I think what
we're seeing in especially being powered
by things like or by orang jop itself is
the flexibility to create more sophis at
burn drop mechanics that help ensure
teams are for a long period of or long
long period of time incentivized and
rewarded for participating in uh or
holding those assets and participating
in ecosystem over an extended period of
time so examples would be things like
handling uh earn drops or air drops and
earn drops the ear drop via a vesting
period that has multiple different
considerations around hey if you take
this token you rest St uh you
participate in this ecosystem you run
for a you know particular period of time
it opens you up to a you know following
airdrop distribution those type of
mechanics I think are going to become
more and more popular where people
aren't just receiving a one-time
distribution but rather they're engaging
in almost a long-term questing
experience on the back of something like
her drop so Neo news today is the entity
that funds the smart economy podcast and
we're a validator uh in the Neo
ecosystem and often our team will do
giveaway campaigns to uh via socials or
um what have you and when we say we're
going to give away $100 in gas tokens
we'll often get um a lot of crypto
Twitter handles that don't interact with
us very often who engage in the giveaway
and then if one of them wins we might
not ever see that name inter interact um
with us on Twitter again or necessarily
create content or interact with other
content uh from the ecosystem so how has
Quest kind
of created this opportunity to um embed
users to to make them sticky to the
ecosystem how does Quest kind of keep
somebody who is participating in um a
campaign uh for the first time in an
ecosystem what are the ways in which um
you guys are facilitating it and making
it easier for them to remain there and
I'm sure that you might touch on a lot
of the topics that you just that you
just spoke about um incentivizing like
ongoing use potential staking but like
what is it what is like the thing that
that that Quest does that Galaxy offers
that does make it replicable from chain
to chain to chain that you onboard and
keep these
users yeah absolutely so I think that
there's a variety of different
strategies and and technologies that can
help support that and Quest is unique in
the sense that we in in the collection
of Galaxy offy offerings is unique in
that it's highly flexible and what
you're able to do is as a developer or
as a marketer as a team is you know
create a long list of subsequent Quest
activities or taking in certain data
points that track repeated usage or
repeated uh social activity you can
leverage things as well as distribute
things like uh you know Discord roles
and and track different type of repeated
activities recurring activities across
different social channels and use those
as a formula to effectively identify on
an ongoing basis who are the folks that
are continuing to engage continuing to
be participant within an ecosystem
continuing to interact and are helping
bring our ecosystem forward and are
really here for the Long Haul and then
you can use that as a as a team to make
strategic decisions are those the people
that we want to award is there a
specific type of incentive that we want
to award them with is going to help
ensure that they're going to be
long-term and continue to be
incentivized to be participating in the
ecosystem um so that's one thing I would
say is is developing really flexing the
system and all of its worth to help to
build uh as much of an interactive and
um much there much of an interactive
experience but also one that can
proactively track a very sophisticated
laundry list of things that uh are
historical markers for uh identifiers
for for high value users and then make
sure we're targeting those and continue
to W them for their participation I
think another side of the equation way
we talk about you know giveaways and
things of that nature that is worth
discussing as well is there's certainly
a lot of the the bodying activity that
can take place as well when a
notification pops up that that someone's
giving out a significant amount of
rewards and it's based either on a
raffle basis some first SC for serve
whatever it may be uh there's a chance
that there's there's Bots that are
effectively looking to gain that system
in order to you know receive those
rewards then going back to even the
earlier point in those instances as well
that's where you enter the risk of
having no connection to the community no
stickiness and immediate distribution to
the market immediate sell-out Behavior
those type of things that any successful
Community is is trying to avoid as much
as as as possible uh we have a handful
of things that are geared towards
providing solutions to exactly that
specifically in the identity realm so we
have things like Galaxy passport which
is a fullon kyc solution uh that's for
dating behaviors and sharing proper
humanness for the people you're looking
to reward that can be a credential for
the questing experience that can be a
credential um or an identifier that you
look to leverage when it comes to
handling airdrop distribution things of
that nature uh you can also use Galaxy
passport outside of the questing
experience you know use it for third
parties onboarding experiences kyc
swapping a whole collection of
interesting things outside of the quest
experience itself but in any case uh we
also have things that are built around
uh Galaxy score for example that are
built around identity management
humanness identification Galaxy score is
more can to what you'd see is like an
onchain credential system that's got
about a half a million users of that
that service as well where you're
effectively taking in all of the
different data points of what their
interactions look like it could be
tested you know interactions could be um
wallet Holdings it could be nft Holdings
how active a wallet is and using that to
develop a certainty of humanness that
you can then use as a way of filtering
out high value participants that you
would want to distribute as opposed to
avoiding those spot networks uh that may
exist on the market have you guys uh
noticed H such a thing as maybe like a
quest Hopper or somebody who's just
continuously jumping from chain to chain
to take advantage of these different
quests and is that a positive or A
negative yeah I mean I think it's
absolutely a positive I mean at the end
of the day uh if you have users that are
you know interested in participating in
one ecosystem um as another ecosystem
you're looking to kind of capture that
same that same audience now you want to
build your own uh very syy community and
of itself but you know we certainly see
that as a very uh a positive behavior
especially for those you know high value
power users that are saying hey uh I
would love to participate in this
ecosystem now I have an opportunity to
participate in another uh now certainly
I think there's uh an upper limit to
what that looks like on the humanness
level before someone you might be like
hey this is uh maybe looking at more
that body maker we just talking about
but in any case I I don't think it's
necessarily A Bad Thing by anyways so
throughout many of your um kind of
examples that you've used throughout
this conversation you've touched upon
identity and uh identity is just going
to become an an Ever increasingly
important aspect of our digital and
online lives it's something that I worry
about quite often often um especially as
we talk about the Advent of AI um and
the ability for somebody to even Source
all of the podcast that we've released
and leverage my voice to to fake a
podcast episode so we're moving into a
world where we have to verify that what
we are consuming whether it's it's
written content or it's audio or video
content that it was indeed created by a
human with with an and using an identity
or an ID protocol to verifi that that
was a human so maybe you can touch a
little bit now on on Galaxy's identity
protocol what is beyond just ensuring
that this is an actual user that they're
not a bot um that maybe they're using
various different galaxy tools and
products and Suites and that this is
that individual are there other ways in
which you and your team are envisioning
how Galaxy's identity protocol can be
used Beyond just what you're using it
for today could it potentially be used
for other use cases outside of of Galaxy
Suite of of tools and products in the
future yeah absolutely so I think in its
current state you look at Galaxy's
identity protocol as this unified
onchain experience for your identity uh
effectively what that means is you can
leverage that to connect the dots
between your Galaxy ID with your social
accounts your wallets and and many more
different data points and proof points
that exist across both onchain and
offchain environments I think what
you'll see is not only us you know
continuing to roll out the amount of
connection points that exist in that
sense but you also start to see us
moving more into how can you Leverage
The the Galaxy identity protocol as that
dating mechanism or that login mechanism
for other sites of applications how can
you have that as one universal login
that can exist very you know similar to
to your Google login or Apple ID things
of that nature is where I would draw a
parallel there uh to these other type of
in interfaces and ecosystems um I think
at the same time you'll also see us
continuing to develop vertically in
terms of what we build on top of a
galaxy identity protocol with things
like I talked about passport score and
others that are more geared towards not
how you use identity with the questing
experience but to your point how do I
make sure that I'm not extending myself
to any number of different providers all
of which that have their own independent
uh or own unique risk uh surface areas
that exists for them and you're trusting
that that data is going to be well
maintained not sold not exploited by any
means leveraging more of these uh
interesting opportunities things like
passport uh Galaxy passport with its uh
uh kyc swapping infrastructure to allow
you to go in and bypass kyc within
certain providers and just extend as I
think we all have thought about is a
rich Vision uh using Zer knowledge proof
to just extend that simple yes yes or no
statement that says hey is this person
kyc hey is this person over 18 hey is
this person um eligible for this type of
application that we're building over
here that's where I start to think that
you bring a lot of the power back into
the user and you know only blockchain
and and what we're doing in the identity
space is is what's going to help power
those type of solutions going forward I
think the proposition that Galaxy offers
to become and and allow me to put my
speculative hat on for you guys uh with
31 million users to become a de facto
identity solution uh a potential
competitor to to ooth which is like the
kind of Google login when you go to um a
a new website to to log in I think with
a user base that large um there's
there's a vast opportunity that's
available for everyone in web 3 to kind
of look to Galaxy to to be this identity
authentication and verification solution
uh that frankly we kind of need um
something that's a little bit Beyond
signing into a new website with a
metamask because we never know what
we're signing away uh what kind of
authorizations we're giving away when
when we approve a new transaction via
metamask so I'm really excited about
what a company an entity like Galaxy can
offer with with an identity solution um
and I think this that what you guys are
building could potentially be the
perfect happy medium between web two and
web 3 make it web two and a half
whatever you want to call it um I know
that you and I are not developers uh
many of our listeners are not super
technical oriented but I do want to
highlight or maybe expand upon a little
bit of what you just spoke about with
the the ZK enabled tooling that allows
for a yes no to verify whether I'm of a
certain age whether I'm of a certain
country or what have you so could you
just share a little bit more about the
ZK technology that that Galaxy's
identity protocol is built upon and
please feel free to keep it as high
level as you want yeah yeah so the the
ZK enabled technology is more in
reference to the work that we're doing
within uh Galaxy passport so Galaxy
passport is a partnership that we have
with suub that allows users to come in
mint a using DK purce minant a uh nft
representation or a sold down nft for
their um uh their kyc identity
effectively have that minted on Shain
that then stays with them in the can use
to interact with different types of
protocols uh as a way of of a gating
mechanism for um those kyc requirements
that may exist on a given platform does
that make sense yeah yeah absolutely um
I I've gotten into and once again like I
don't know much about development I
don't know much about coding but I've
gotten into very philosophical
conversations about identity and even
ranging from when we go to a bar and we
show our ID why does the bartender need
to to see my address and why do they
even need to see my particular birth
date don't they just need to verify that
I'm over 21 so um I think this is a
super interesting realm that that we're
going into and it's been so many years
that we haven't necessarily seen an
identity solution be provided but it's
really interesting to see what Galaxy's
working on and um again as I mentioned
earlier like allow me to put my
speculation hat on for you guys that
what's being built and what's being
leveraged especially with AAR large user
base there could be a future opportunity
where there are more um sort of
solutions for Galaxy's ID protocol that
are leveraged outside of things like
quests or like score but um to keep the
the focus on Galaxy and the suite of
tools and products that you guys are
working on you have also mentioned
several times throughout our
conversation Galaxy score so what is
this does this also enable me as a
Galaxy user does it empower me to
explore the various different
Partnerships that galaxy has the various
different ecosystems and blockchains
that Galaxy is partnering with um what
does Galaxy score mean for me as a user
and what does the value prop that it
offers Galaxy have when you're going out
and talking with other potential
Partners yeah absolutely so just to
continue on the last Point as you were
talking about I mean that was honestly
the the the piece that interested me the
most and that's that aha moment uh that
got me into space was exactly what you
just outlined that perfect scenario of
why do I need to extend all of these
different data points all of this
confidential information while I'm just
trying to get it in a bar uh so that is
something that we're looking to uh that
that something to the effect of gy pass
forward is looking to enable and we've
seen over a million people today met uh
Min their Galaxy passport and actively
leverage that both inside and outside of
the questing experience and there's some
other interesting use cases certainly
outside of of Galaxy that uh are
becoming increasingly adopted and will
be you know increasingly um I think
discussed in the very near future and
then in terms of Galaxy score what
galaxy score enables is you know for a
team that's looking to incentivize
Behavior or a team that is looking to
participate in Galaxy Quest they may not
want to have or they have a strict
requirement around things like you need
to go get kyc verified which is entirely
Fair those are barriers to you know
participation that's a point of friction
in a lot of instances for people where
they want to ensure that they're
handling civil resistance properly by
weeding out as many of the PO behavior
that exists but they don't want to force
people to move forward with a fully kyc
experience in order to have a active
participant or active role in the
community itself so really what galaxy
score is is that happy medium between
the two Galaxy score is a way of
leveraging a galaxy identity protocol to
encapsulate all of the different and
quantify all of the different data
points that exist across your digital on
andof or your on offchain identity both
with socials
and then onchain what are your asset
Holdings like I mentioned earlier what
type of nft communities you're involved
in what type of uh asset movements you
have on a regular basis things of that
nature that help develop a onchain
basically credit to How likely you are
to be a human being and then from there
based on what tier or what degree of
humanness you want to require a team can
effectively put that into the questing
experience either as a gating mechanism
or a way of targeting that type of user
disproportionately compared to maybe the
ones that don't have to participate or
have a Galaxy score associated with them
so it's an outof the boox solution that
a individual you know consumer could go
today along with Galaxy passport mint
their Galaxy score mint their Galaxy
passport and have that not only is a way
of participating in the ecosystem but
also in a way of participating in in
other ecosystems outside of galaxies
yeah I love that you you highlight the
kind of asset movements that the types
of transactions associated with the it
maybe the nfts that they're a part of um
just an anecdotal experience there's a
mcoin and an ecosystem that recently
launched and the way that they were
trying to onboard users was they wanted
you to publicly share your wallet in
their Twitter thread and um I can think
of nothing less attractive than just
going out onto Twitter and sharing my
wallet address and saying hey give me
some speculative tokens um so I
completely just kind of like
uh see the use case for how uh Galaxy
score can onboard active users and kind
of Empower them knowing that they'll be
able to show their or verify their
onchain transactions and their onchain
activity without necessarily having to
give their onchain identity away to the
end user or to the end project that is
curious about that information um are
there other sort of um passport enabled
programs
are there other kind of Realms of
passport that we haven't discussed yet
are there future plans for passport um
just kind of like a catchall question to
see if we've missed anything I think the
biggest one that we're diving very deep
into right now and we'll have a lot more
information to to share soon so
certainly stay tuned across all of our
our social channels which we can mention
as well but for Galaxy fastport in
particular one of the really interesting
areas that we're continuing to be more
and more involved in is this notion of
having uh kyc swapping so we see a lot
of businesses today specifically things
like on and off ramps that if I want to
work with banksa um or one of these
other providers uh through you know your
your your wallet plugin on your on your
Chrome
browser um you're having to go through
kyc with bump provider and then you go
to moonay and you do kyc provider or kyc
process with the other provider uh and
you continue to go down that track
through all these different on and off
ramps that you might use or specifically
on ramps in that sense and it's a very
cumbersome experience for the end user
because you're working through you know
potentially weeklong kyc in some
instances depending on how they
structured um you sign up processes all
of those different elements and then
from a business's perspective they are
effectively you know gating themselves
out or or or setting up their own
barriers for attracting new clients
because it's such a converson experience
so what we're really interested in when
it comes to Galaxy passport right now is
this notion of kyc swapping where and
kyc saring where we can go to these
different providers and say if you
accept if this individual has a Galaxy
passport you can leverage that as a way
of bypassing the cumbersome onboarding
process and allow for on andof ramp um
participation directly through uh Galaxy
passport I've been talking about
identity Solutions with with folks for
for years and the the Crux of it always
comes down to are there enough users to
trust your solution in order to be able
to do something like the kyc swapping
that you're just talking about and um
I'm just really excited to to keep my
ears to the ground and see how this
plays out for Galaxy because 31 million
users is nothing to to scoff at and I
think that's kind of at the point where
it becomes kind of a product that sells
itself to various on andof ramp Fiat
providers uh various other different
type of entities that require kyc and to
be able to have an interchangeable
database that you can leverage between
these different providers um it's just a
super exciting opportunity so I'll just
go ahead and put words in you and your
team's mouth um so kind of like zooming
out and and wrapping up uh we're kind of
getting to the top of the hour here um
Galaxy is launching its own chain
gravity chain
so why why are you launching a chain you
have spent all this time with your
developer team understanding and
learning and how to work within various
different blockchain ecosystems and so
maybe even Galaxy kind of walks into all
of these relationships with a protocol
agnosticism that makes you guys
Switzerland of the blockchain worlds you
don't have to deal with like tribal
communities you can just say well on
board your technology so maybe um at the
risk of giv up that credible neutrality
why did the team opt to build gravity
chain why did you build it on evm what
are kind of the hopes and goals for
Gravity chain yeah so I think it was you
know classic scenario of born out of
necessity as well as some of more
philosophical um efforts that we wanted
to undertake so what I mean by that is
you know certainly we've been working
across all of these ecosystems handling
you know loyalty points handling asset
distribution Quest and Inc you know
build ecosystem building through
incentives things of that nature and you
know what we saw in that period is you
know we're going from ecosystem to
ecosystem ecosystem and without a
central Hub or you know those Omi chain
interactions to make them as seamless as
possible um when we wanted to bring that
on chain we realized that you know
performance was certainly going to be an
issue uh without taking you know a
direct approach to scalability having
something direct for Galaxy in
particular as that first fourway into
handling those Amy chain environment one
Central Hub that's going to facilitate
all of those transactions um the second
piece is you know with us getting
underway a few years back we really
wanted to build as much of the
infrastructure on chain so one thing
that we did for example is all of our
loyalty points the things that you know
any given application today is accre by
or any giving consumer today is occuring
by participating in a Galaxy Quest for
uh what you know application a on chain
a and application B on Shain B all of
those activities are actually documented
on chain because importantly wanted to
ensure that there was you know full T
chamber resistance full onchain
documentation of all of those
interactions so that as we go through
you know reward distribution and
monetary considerations those are all
handled in a highly secure uh
environment uh that that can be provided
on chain as opposed to something that
would be have to otherwise handle off
chain so that's really what came to us
developing the initial uh gravity kind
of thesis and that started with us
launching gravity uh Alpha M which is a
actually DL to which is an interesting
approach in of itself but again wanting
to satisfy those different areas and
again test this this theory for how we
would handle an omni chain interaction
between all of these different you know
ecosystems at once uh that chain today
is actually one of the largest or most
active l2s in the market right behind
base and nexti so continuing to drive
you know Millions upon millions of
transactions we actually just crossed
about 350 million transactions
since Q4 last year so continuing to go
very very rapidly there's about 29
million unique addresses that have been
deployed on gravity L2 and on top of
that you know we want to continue to
build into highly scalable
infrastructure that's going to support
not only our ecosystem of applications
but the applications that want to um
that require something similar they
require I face those similar challenges
when it comes to powering their you know
highly you know uh High demanding
applications in an aing environment and
so for us that led us down this path of
you know taking that proven thesis for
the L2 and compartmentalizing packaging
it and putting it into an L1 format and
that's what we're coming forward with
later this year is is going to be the
gravity1 which is the aimed at
delivering specifically highspeed
security and interoperability and in
particular you know looking to achieve
one gigas per second with sub you know
subsec finality we can certainly talk
about the technical a little bit but
it's a mouthful I'll pause there yeah no
I think um um uh you know we could
probably spend another 30 minutes just
talking about gravity but I think main
the the main kind of uh area I want to
delve into is what are the opportunities
for interop how will gravity uh
communicate with other chains because um
if you're primarily leveraging the
rewards and loyalty points that have
been acred on Galaxy there have to be a
way to communicate with other chains
that this user uh with this wallet on
gravity chain has participated in this
ecosystem and they've earned x amount of
loyalty points so how has kind of
cross-chain communication been embedded
into the to the Outlook the the view the
perspective for for what gravity chain
will have yeah absolutely so uh gravity
or gravity as an L1 is partnered or we
have partnered with chain link labs and
the chain link team for chain link CCI
to underpin as a messaging layer for all
of those cross chain interactions and
then is a token distribution layer for
any of those token movements that exist
between all those given networks uh so
we're leveraging chain l gcip in that
sense to handle the the cross chain
communication portion of the equation
cool that must be nice to uh go back to
your old chainlink team and have a
reason to partner with them absolutely
it's uh it's a small world small
community yeah Small World um so kind of
I guess uh final final question or two
as we wrap up and zoom out what are some
of the trends that you're particularly
interested in watching play out let's
just say in in the short term in 20125
yeah I think the biggest that's
happening in front of us right now or or
some of the biggest that are happening
right in front of us right now are the
convergence of blockchain and AI That's
certainly first and foremost we're
seeing that not only uh with things like
meme coins but we're seeing that with
some of the applications that are being
developed and the resourcing that's
being put behind that aspect of the
industry how can blockchain under and
you know different inference um uh
layers different serving Frameworks
different agents uh that are being
developed on AI and how does blockchain
effectively play supporting role in that
equation and what's up by opportunities
and different products and and services
does that open up for people that are
interacting within the web cn3
environment I think that's probably the
biggest Trend that that we're across
right now that I think is going to
continue to to play a critical role
going forward and continue to get
investment um going forward uh but again
I think there's there's a lot of other
areas that are been just to us there is
the work that's done around parallel
EVMS um there is works that are being
done around you know the continued cze
around uh mem coins we even see that
with um some of the mem coins that are
even considerations right now for more
structured uh ETF products which I think
is an interesting consideration of
itself uh so there's there's a lot of
things that are happening that I think
again are going to continue to push the
space forward bring it to the masses at
the end of the day and create real value
for anyone that wants to participate or
can participate in this web three
environment awesome so who are the folks
that you want to uh be chatting with and
what's the best way they can reach out
to you yeah I mean like I said we want
to chat with everybody if you're
building a team if you're building a
project today if you're thinking about
raising capital and you're thinking of
how do I take you know go from Z to one
and then 0 to 100 we want to be with you
and partnered with you through that
entire life cycle we want to work with
you from coming out of self through your
you know actual end token distribution
whatever it may be we're here to play
and and and partner with you in that
process and and are certainly best
position to do so uh best ways to
contact us uh you can either check us
out on on galaxy.com or we also have uh
gravity. XYZ in terms of Two web pages
that support those two major brands and
then in addition to that you can follow
us on Twitter with u uh Galaxy for
Galaxy and then gravity chain for
Gravity Patrick um thank you so much for
hopping on the Pod I once again want to
reiterate I completely empathize with
the postf flu brain fog and so just want
to thank you so much for fighting
through it and for providing such a
jam-packed uh interview with tons and
tons and tons of great information so
thank you for your time and thank you
for being a warrior and fighting through
the brain plug uh the day after you
started recovering from the flu I really
really appreciate your time yeah I
appreciate it yeah it's a uh we we made
it so I appreciate it Don thank you
awesome cheers man feel better thank you
for tuning in to the smart economy
podcast to stay in the loop with all of
our latest episodes and insights head
over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content if
you enjoyed today's discussion please
consider showing your support by liking
commenting and reviewing this episode on
your favorite podcasting platform your
feedback helps us reach more listeners
and brings even better content your way
we'd also love to hear from you so
please drop a comment on Spotify or
YouTube to share what topics you'd like
us to cover or who you'd like to hear as
our next guest and if you or someone you
know would make a great guest please
don't hesitate to reach out we're always
looking for fresh voices and New
Perspectives and for our neot token
holders out there please consider voting
for Neo news today as your Council
representative we've proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since
2017 and we'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our Council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
initiatives with all that said thank you
so much for tuning in to the smart
economy podcast and we look forward to
catching you next time